# Appium Desktop [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/appium/appium-desktop.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/appium/appium-desktop) [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/gxx736n70959dl84?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/appium/appium-desktop-9xjtw)

![Action screenshot](docs/images/screen-inspector-and-logs.png)

Appium Desktop is an open source app for Mac, Windows, and Linux which gives
you the power of the [Appium](http://appium.io) automation server in
a beautiful and flexible UI. It is a combination of a few Appium-related tools:

* A graphical interface for the Appium Server. You can set options, start/stop the server, see logs, etc... You also don't need to use Node/NPM to install Appium, as the Node runtime comes bundled with Appium Desktop.
* An Inspector that you can use to look at your app's elements, get basic information about them, and perform basic interactions with them. This is useful as a way to learn about Appium or as a way to learn about your app so you can write tests for it.

## Download Appium Desktop

You can always pick up the latest release at our
[Release](https://github.com/appium/appium-desktop/releases/latest) page on
GitHub.

If you're on Windows or macOS, Appium Desktop will automatically provide you
with updated versions of the app when they are released. If you encounter
a problem updating, simply delete or uninstall the app and re-download the
latest from the link above.

Note that Appium Desktop _is not_ the same thing as Appium. Appium Desktop is
a graphical frontend to Appium with additional tools. Appium Desktop is
released on its own cadence and has its own versioning system. If you are
reporting an issue with Appium Desktop, always be sure to include _both_ the
version of Appium Desktop and the version of the Appium Server which is in use
(see below).

## Usage Instructions

These instructions assume you are already familiar with Appium and
Appium-related concepts. If you are new to Appium, please visit
[appium.io](http://appium.io) and read our introductory material.

This app provides a convenient way to download and run the Appium automation
server, as well as a tool for inspecting your Android or iOS application. Its
various capabilities are described in the following sections.

### The server start window

#### Starting a simple server

![Start a basic server](docs/images/screen-start-simple.png)

When you open Appium Desktop, you are greeted with the server start window. The
basic option is to start an Appium server with all its defaults and the ability
to modify the host and port. The start button will also let you know which
version of the Appium server you are running, which can be useful when
reporting issues to the Appium team.

#### Starting a server with advanced options

![Start an advanced server](docs/images/screen-start-advanced.png)

By clicking on the 'Advanced' tab, you have the ability to set all the server
flags that are available in Appium. This is for advanced users and should only
be modified after consulting the Appium documentation.

#### Server presets

![Server presets](docs/images/screen-start-presets.png)

If you use the advanced server options, you have the ability to save
a configuration for later use. Simply save the preset on the 'Advanced' tab,
and you will subsequently be able to recall and start the server with that
configuration from the 'Preset' tab.

### The server console output window

Once you start the server, it will launch on the host and port you specified,
and open a new window displaying the server log output.

![Server console](docs/images/screen-logs.png)

This is fairly straightforward and no real interaction is possible, beyond
using the button to stop the server. You can also copy-and-paste the logs from
this window which is useful in reporting Appium issues.

One other button is available: 'Start New Session'. Clicking this will open up
the New Session window enabling you to start an Inspector session on the
currently-running server.

### The New Session window

The New Session window allows you to construct a set of Appium desired
capabilities used to launch an Appium session. You can launch a session against
the currently-running Appium Desktop server (which is the default), or you can
launch a session against a variety of other endpoints.

![New session window](docs/images/screen-new-session.png)

Since it's not required to run against Appium Desktop's own server, you can get
to the New Session window without starting an Appium Desktop server. Simply go
to "File" (Windows/Linux) or "Appium" (Mac) and choose "New Session...", which
will open the New Session window without having to start a local server. In
this case, attaching to the local server will be disabled.

#### Appium Endpoints

These are the options for launching a session against a non-local Appium server:

* A custom host/port configuration: this is useful if you want to launch an Inspector session against an Appium server running on another machine in your network, for example.
* Sauce Labs: if you don't have access to, say, iOS simulators on your machine, you can leverage your [Sauce Labs](https://saucelabs.com) account to start an Appium session in the cloud.
* TestObject: you can also utilize [TestObject](https://testobject.com)'s cloud of real devices for a real device-based Inspector session.

It should be straightforward to get set up with any of these options. Simply
enter your details in the input fields provided.

#### Desired Capabilities

Desired capabilities are how you configure your Appium session. They tell the
Appium server what kind of platform and app you want to automate. If you are
unfamiliar with the concept of desired capabilities, or which desired
capabilities are required to launch Appium sessions of various types, you
should consult the Appium documentation.

Appium Desktop does not restrict your creation of desired capabilities in any
way, nor will it validate them for you. It simply provides a nice UI for
entering them in, and saving them for later use. Under the 'Desired
Capabilities' tab, you can use the form fields and '+' button to enter as many
desired capabilities as you need. You will also see a representation of the
resulting JSON, which is what is actually sent to the Appium server. This can
be useful for verifying your capabilities, or for copy-and-pasting when
reporting issues.

Once you have set your desired capabilities, you might wish to save them so you
can run the same type of session later. Simply click the 'Save As...' button to
give your capability set a name. You can then access it under the 'Saved
Capability Sets' tab, for later editing or session launching.

Once your server type and capabilities are set, click 'Start Session' to launch
the Appium Desktop Inspector.

### The Inspector

The Inspector is a visual representation of the state of your application along
with the ability to perform certain interactions in your application through
Appium.

![Inspector window](docs/images/screen-inspector.png)

Appium sessions can take some time to load, especially on cloud services, so
please be patient. When the session loads, a screenshot of your app will appear
on the left. You can mouse over various UI elements in your application, and
see them highlighted.

In the middle of the Inspector window is your app's hierarchy, represented as
XML. You can navigate this tree by clicking through it, or by clicking on
elements in the screenshot view. They will then be highlighted.

When an element is highlighted, its information will appear in the detail view
on the right side of the Inspector. This detail view consists of potential
actions to take against the element, and a table of the element's properties.
These properties are valuable in determining how the element might accessed
using a particular Appium locator strategy. With an element selected, you can
also 'Tap' the element, or 'Send Keys' to the element (if it is a text field).

When you take such an action with an element, the Inspector will send the
command to Appium, which will execute it. If the action is successful, a new
screenshot will be generated and you should see the updated state and XML of
your app. If it's not successful, you'll have an opportunity to see the error
message.

### Conclusion

This is everything you need to know to use Appium Desktop successfully!
Remember, Appium Desktop is not a replacement for understanding Appium
itself---it is simply a convenient tool for working with Appium on your
desktop, and an Inspector for exploring your app. Have fun!

## Reporting Issues

Appium Desktop is open source, and we use GitHub for issue tracking. Please
simply report issues at our [issue
tracker](https://github.com/appium/appium-desktop/issues). We will endeavor to
determine whether the issue you are reporting is related to Appium Desktop or
Appium Server. If it's not related to Appium Desktop specifically, we will
close the issue and ask you to open a general Appium issue at [Appium's main
issue tracker](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues). Please, save
yourselves and us valuable time by getting clear on whether the issue you're
experiencing is related to Appium Desktop specifically or instead is a general
Appium issue. You can do this by seeing whether the issue reproduces with the
Appium command line server as well. If it does, direct your report to Appium's
issue tracker.

## Developer Instructions

Want to hack on Appium Desktop? Awesome! Head on over to our [Contributing
Doc](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on how to get a dev environment set up
and submit changes back to the project.
